Two of testing now.
Okay, now we're testing and this is Thursday the 28th.
28th is it?
Okay.
I think it's.
All right.
Say something.
I thought it was 27th.
That was yesterday, wasn't it?
I did too.
28th, okay.
Until I checked my calendar.
June 28th we are in the Evans Library and I have the honor and pleasure of trying to record as much as we can of the
experiences here at A&M of Major General Tom Darling.
To introduce yourself to anybody that listened to the tape or read the transcription, give a biographical summary of life before you came down.
Where'd you grow up?
What did mom and dad do?
Where'd you go to high school?
Summarize until you're ready to go off to college.
Okay, very well.
I'd be pleased to do that.
My background, I suppose, was not a lot different to people of my age.
I was born in 1932 in Abilene, Texas.
My parents lived on a dairy farm, worked on a dairy farm just out of Abilene, and they had originally migrated there from northeast Texas in the Depression years, and jobs were hard, but there was some lead out there on a job.
And they went out there and later went to work on this kind of operating a farm, a dairy farm.
My dad did that for many years.
He didn't own the thing, but he sort of ran the dairy herd and helped run the farm and did a little sharecropping.
My mother and dad and either one graduated from high school over in deep east Texas where they attended school.
I think out in the country it dropped off at grade 10 and they had to go into town or somewhere.
They neither one had a high school degree or diploma.
My dad did attend the business school just a little bit, but primarily he was a farm worker and he do a lot about dairy farming and managing a herd of 100 dairy cows.
So I grew up on that dairy farm about five or six miles out of Abilene and
We didn't have any close neighbors.
I think a mile or so would have been the closest neighbor we had.
I went to a small rural school called Elmdale.
The community still exists, but the little store and all that were there are no longer there.
All that's sort of included in the edge of Abilene now.
But anyway, I went to a small rural school.
Only half a dozen teachers.
We had two grades.
in one classroom.
I remember in the second grade watching the third grade learn their multiplication tables and I see debated in the paper something this week about when do you teach the multiplication tables, what grade, but I remember that very well.
It was the third grade when I went to school.
But anyway, we went, I went through eight grades there at this small rural school and then transferred into Abilene High School.
which was a good-sized high school.
It was a top-of-the-class double-A high school in those days.
We had a little over 300 in my graduating class there, but I went all four years to Abilene High School.
I graduated there in the spring of 1950.
Growing up, I learned hard work.
I hold cotton for 50 cents an hour and headed maize and
drove the tractor and did a lot of farm work, a lot of hard work, fence building and all of those things.
And I remember ideas about college were given to me primarily by my dad as far back as I can remember.
He kept saying, son, you need to go to college.
We want you to have it better than we had, which was a common thing with people at that time.
They wanted something better for their kids.
But he enrolled in all of the extension programs and took the bulletins from the extension service here, and I'd see these things, and they were stamped Texas A&M, and got involved in 4-H club work as a youngster.
helped advise some, and we'd go to the summer camps, and we'd have people from A&M, from wildlife, Dr. Potts, I remember him bringing all his stuffed animals and giving these demonstrations.
So A&M became more and more on my mind, but as far back as I can remember, that's the only place I wanted to go, and my dad helped shape that.
this dairy farm that we lived on was owned by a man by the name of Pitzer, P-I-T-Z-E-R.
And he had two boys, his oldest son, Ted Pitzer, who was class of 50, I believe, here at Texas A&M.
He was four years ahead of me.
But he came on to A&M, and I remember him wearing his uniform and hearing things about A&M from him.
But Ted Pitzer went on to become the
that headed the Association of Former Students when the Alumni Center was opened in 1987.
Unfortunately, he passed away about then.
But Ted Pitzer, the son of the man that owned this farm that I grew up on, was a guy that I remember well and helped me think about A&M and want to come here.
But I do remember World War II very well, although I didn't serve in that, of course.
But all of those things had a deep impression on me, and being in the military or serving was something I felt compelled to do, and I wanted to do that.
So when I came to A&M, I knew that they had military programs here and you could get a commission here.
You know, it didn't dawn on me what service they were talking about.
I assumed Army, I guess, but I knew they had a green coat and all that.
I would be an ROTC and hopefully get a commission out.
That all sounded very attractive to me, a better way to go than to be drafted or something.
And so all of that kind of led me to Texas A&M.
My folks, again, were very poor people, didn't have...
many resources of the world of their own.
And I had an older brother, Jim, he's two years older than I am, and he attended John Tarleton first two years, 48 and 49, and he and I both came to A&M in the fall of 50.
He was a transfer from Tarleton, started out in the Corps, and I was a fish.
in the Corps, but we came to A&M together.
And then I had a younger sister, about a year and a half younger than me.
And she was still in high school, of course, but later she went on to North Texas.
So there were three of us in college at one time.
And it really didn't dawn on me what a burden that would be financially for my parents.
I really had not heard of any scholarships or anything.
Again, when I came to A&M, I saw some people did have table waiting jobs in the dining hall and things like that, but I didn't hear of many scholarships.
And me, financial aid in those days was go get a job.
Had you, before you came to register, had you ever been to the campus to visit?
Okay.
In high school, I played on a basketball team there.
and had done fairly well as a basketball player and as a team.
And one of the fellows on the team, well, in fact, there were three of us, I believe, came to A&M and fought together.
But his dad had graduated from A&M.
His name was Val Montgomery.
He was a Yale leader in my class, but one of my best friends in Abilene growing up.
We played ball together and all, but his dad was an engineer and had graduated from A&M.
So he brought us down here one time to visit.
This was the main visit we made about coming to A&M.
And I'll back up in a moment and tell you about one previous visit I'd made to A&M.
But anyway, they brought us down, and we were all committed to come.
It wasn't a question of wanting.
We wanted to come.
And I remember visiting with Coach Marty Corot.
who had been the basketball coach, but he was in the process of moving from A&M to Ohio State as the head baseball coach.
Marty Corot was a famous name in college athletics in those days.
I was very impressed to sit down with Marty Corot and talk about coming to A&M and play basketball.
And he had had a recruiter that had watched us in one tournament out there and he told, it was two of us I guess, he said, I can't offer you a scholarship or anything.
I don't have anything to offer you.
but I will put you in an athletic dorm and you know we'll see how you can do.
And that was that visit to A&M.
I did have a previous visit to A&M.
I said I was in a 4-H later in high school I was in FFA work and I was president of our local high school chapter and all that thing.
My brother
just ahead of me he'd been state ffa president he'd won the national public speaking contest in ffa so we were all very hooked in to 4-h and ffa and i was on the high school dairy judging team and we'd won our little area there and we want to write and won the district and we'd won the opportunity to come to a m to participate in the state dairy judging contest this was my junior year in high school
And we came down here and we won first place in state dairy judging.
And I was on cloud nine.
My BOAG teacher, Mr. J.I.
Moore, I never will forget him there in Abilene, was one of the, you know, my heroes.
But he did more probably than my parents, anyone but my parents, in shaping me.
Of course, he directed me to A&M too, having been a graduate of A&M.
But we came down to A&M and won that dairy judging contest and
I remember driving all the way back to Abilene and Mr. Moore and the three of us on the team, we talked and visited.
We got the opportunity to go to the National Dairy Judging Contest in Waterloo, Iowa that fall.
So we get on a train and ride all the way to Waterloo, Iowa and participate in the National Dairy Judging Contest.
We won a second division rating or something.
We didn't win the whole thing up there.
But anyway, it was my first trip really out of Texas and my exposure to some other part of the country, my first train ride like that.
All of that was fun and some things that I have good memories of.
But anyway, the two trips I'd had to A&M were on the dairy judging and also when we came down really to see the coach and say, yes, we want to come and find out a little bit more about it.
I don't remember much about it.
pre-registration or anything like that.
I just remember when we came, we all went through this big line over in Cebiza.
It was all a manual system, and you'd run over at this table, and they'd say, no, we're full up, and then you'd run over to another one, and you'd try to get you a schedule that you wanted.
Again, back to my pre-A&M days, they sold off the dairy herd and we just were straight farming, but I had summer jobs working in the grain harvest.
A neighbor of ours had a fleet of combines and needed operators to pull those, and I did that for about three summers.
I was driving a tractor before I ever had a license to drive a car.
One other interesting thing, prior to coming to A&M, we lived out in the country there, and really I was not in the Abilene School District.
We lived just across the county line.
Our house was about 200 yards into the Callahan County.
And we should go to this little school back through the winding roads over there called Eula, E-U-L-A, a little small school.
I don't remember being there once or twice in my life, but the roads were very poor, very rough and unpassable in inclement weather when it rained and muddy and all that.
You couldn't even get there.
The buses couldn't come.
And my parents very much wanted me to be able to go, all three of us, to go to Abilene High School.
rather than this little small rural school that we couldn't get to.
And, you know, it ended up, most of those years I was in high school, my parents had to pay the tuition because the school district wouldn't transfer us to Abilene.
Although we drove the other way, we rode the milk truck, we did all of these things, the school bus came within a mile of our house, all of that.
But the Eula School District couldn't even get within five miles of us.
But still, they wouldn't honor a transfer.
So my parents, as poor as they were, had to foot the bill for us to pay that tuition.
I don't remember what it was.
It probably wasn't a great amount.
But nonetheless, it was a burden for them.
But in hindsight, I'm very glad that I had the opportunity to attend what I thought was a very good high school.
I had good teachers there.
And when I came to A&M, I think I was ahead of a lot of the students
that came with me.
A lot of them were from very small schools that perhaps didn't have all the resources and all that we had in Abilene at the time.
But anyway, I counted a blessing that I got to attend Abilene High School.
But work on the farm all the time was something that we just grew up with.
And when it came time to go to college, I was glad to come.
One reason, I was ready to get away from that hard work.
I mean, it was long and hot and sweaty.
And when I got to A&M, I heard these stories about people wanting to quit.
And I've heard them all my years since then.
Everybody comes to A&M, especially in the Corps.
You know, you think at least once or twice about seriously quitting.
I can honestly say it never entered my mind.
Once I came, I was so proud and glad to be here and so pleased that I might have an opportunity to make something better of my life that I wouldn't have to return to be just a farm laborer, which was essentially what my dad was.
I'm assuming also one of the other factors relating to that is you didn't want to have to face your parents to explain to them why.
Well, that's true.
I know they never had any doubts about me staying, and I never expressed any doubt to them either.
But anyway, I worked through that summer before I came, and I believe my mother brought me to A&M in our old car.
and I had very little with me.
We didn't have much in the rooms.
All you needed was... Did you already have your footlocker?
I had a footlocker.
Let's see, I got one, I believe, to come here.
I had a footlocker and, you know, my underwear, and I think we were allowed to bring a little small radio maybe with us, and maybe the towels, I don't recall.
But, you know, just the very basic things.
It didn't take a lot of space, and I remember the rooms we had
All we had was a double deck bed in there, steel bed, and we each room, remember each roommate had a desk and a chair in your footlocker and nothing on the floor.
It was pretty basic and so, you know.
How did you locate that room?
Did you know before you came?
Yes.
Okay.
I mentioned earlier that the coach had promised us that he would put us in the athletic dorm.
And that was where?
That was Hart Hall.
I didn't, I,
I think I saw Hart Hall when we came down on that visit I knew roughly course the campus was not huge in those days and there's a main street that ran up in front of Hart Hall there and we parked on each side there but they brought my mother brought me and let me out there Hart Hall and I moved in and she took off.
Do you remember anything that
she and you said to each other when she was there?
I can't remember anything specific about that departure.
I've heard those kind of stories where they give you some bit of instruction or something.
And did your dad say anything before you left home?
Just a word of encouragement.
You know, again, I think with an expectation that I was going to make it, that there was no question that he was glad I was going and that sort of thing, but no, no.
And there was no fish camp then, was there?
No fish camp.
Seemed like we did.
maybe report two or three days early or something like that.
I remember that.
But I do remember after I was dropped off and checked into the dorm there, I was assigned a room there on the first floor in C Stoop, we called it, the C Corridor, and got a roommate there.
I remember him.
He didn't stay very long.
Billy Jeffrey was a kid from the valley.
But got in there and, you know, start meeting these other people.
But one of the first things we, it was on a Sunday.
And that afternoon for the evening meal, the first sergeant told us to fall out.
We fell out in the street there in front of Hart Hall.
Civilian clothes.
Civilian clothes at that time to march up to Cebisa Hall for dinner.
And I remember very well, my commanding officer was a guy by the name of Julian Herring.
He was from Abilene.
I had known Julian a little bit.
He was ahead of me, but he ran track and all.
But he was a track man at A&M, very fine individual.
I was assigned to Company B Athletics in those days.
Hart Hall was divided between Company A Athletics, which was all football players, and then essentially the other half of the dormitory was all the other sports, basketball, baseball, swimming, track,
all of those, so we were all sort of together in one company.
But Julian Herring of Abilene, I believe he was a petroleum engineer if I remember correctly, was a commanding officer, a guy that I really respected.
I still can remember the, you know, the way he handled himself and, you know, I thought, hey, that's the guy I want to be like.
And the first sergeant was a fellow by the name of Ralph Ellis from Dallas.
And Ralph was a swimmer.
Very good man, too.
But he had to play the role of first sergeant, which is a little different.
You know, he had to teach us some of the first things about dress right, dress and about face and all of that stuff.
And that was all very confusing to me.
It was kind of surprising.
I wasn't expecting that, I guess.
But it kind of struck me as, oh, I didn't know about this.
And...
But anyway, we got oriented and we had to go through that week to get our uniforms, had to go through the process.
And I never will forget, they had some old warehouses over there, the ROTC shacks and all that, but it's over there somewhere and I can't even picture where it is now.
But there was a big warehouse thing that we had to line up.
It took us all day to get our uniforms.
I never will forget how hot and miserable it was standing in line
And I thought at the time, you know, there must be a better way to do this.
But my years at A&M, it was mostly standing in line.
Line still bug me today, and it stems from that first year at A&M when we had to stand in line so long to do almost everything.
And some of the uniforms y'all were issued were new clothing and some were used?
Yes, yes.
We had a bag there, and it was old starch stuff mostly for the summer uniform anyway.
But they had a laundry turn in, and we'd put our laundry together on a certain day and pick it up.
But I remember those pants and shirts, they'd stand on their own.
They were so stiff when you get them back.
But when I got that uniform and all, I felt pretty proud.
Describe the, now the, were the sophomores here when you arrived, the first day or two?
There were some here as I recall.
You know, that's not real clear.
I do remember it was primarily the CO and the first sergeant that we were dealing with.
And classes were two or three days away?
They were just, we were here a little, I believe, early.
I don't recall the exact sequence and schedule there, but
We had a little bit, because I do remember we had some testing we went through in the basic division.
They kept talking about the basic division.
I never heard that term before.
And Dr. Cliff Ransdell was one of the main guys in that.
And I never will forget him talking to us, but I guess it was kind of like orientation, a combination of some things we have today.
But it seemed like we had to take one course in the basic division there.
But it was a course that every freshman had to take, I believe.
But I do remember some of that and doing some testing.
And I don't remember what they did with that testing.
I think it helped maybe in the placement of some courses and all.
And describe how you and your buddies, you and your classmates were,
oriented in terms of traditions and hazing and whatever else.
How did they get y'all broken in?
Well, I believe we were the first freshman class back on campus, as I recall.
Our sophomores had all been over at O'Brien Air Base.
So, you know, they were glad to be here and they were really gonna, I guess, get us straightened out and oriented in the right direction.
But I don't remember
too much of the hazing and stuff that you might think of you know as in the first few days they didn't harass us too badly but again being in athletic dorm was a little different and there were no hallways were there no hallways per se that you just had these
ramps that went up four floors and it's just that stoop or corridor, whatever you call it.
So, you know, you couldn't get people together.
So they couldn't line you up in the hallway?
No.
Mainly it was in the formations.
We did have a meeting or two, as I remember that right off where they lectured us and told us.
and taught us how to wear the uniform and all that thing all of those kind of things but at the dining hall i remember they they got after us pretty good describe that well again i learned that you know there's privileges starting at the top here and freshmen didn't have any and we we had to do all these errands and details and
answer questions and that was every meal practice it seemed.
Did you have any favorite Cush questions or?
Oh, I can't say that I had a favorite like that.
I do remember we had Cush questions and the seniors like to play joke, like to do things.
They detail some fish to go over to do something to some senior.
That was a favorite trick.
And, you know, you'd be ordered to go steal this guy's dessert or take his water away or just all kind of things, you know, from getting his chair to you name it, kind of things that they had us doing.
But some of it seemed like it was trying to belittle us.
And I heard the stories, you know, we start you out at the bottom.
You're all alike here and we put this uniform on you and there's no difference in economic status or anything.
I'd heard that story from the first day I got here.
And I came to believe that, that there is something in the core that's special about kind of starting everyone out on the same tier.
And I can say that even though I came from a very poor background,
I was treated pretty much like every other student, and I think it was pretty much on you earn your grades and you earn your status.
I liked that.
I liked that because it gave me an opportunity that I wouldn't have.
Socially, I didn't have that.
I would not have had that opportunity.
Some of these guys had, you know, been involved in a lot of social things in high school and all, and I really didn't have that much opportunity to participate socially because I was working.
We didn't have neighbors and that sort of thing.
How long was it before you all did any pranks or assigned jokes in the dining hall?
Well, that started off pretty quickly, very quickly.
Very quickly.
And I remember we'd get hassled on campus.
Sophomores, you know, kind of had a free run at us and ask us all these questions.
And I became a little frustrated that you couldn't satisfy any of them.
I didn't understand that.
But I just couldn't satisfy any of them.
This learning to whip out and meet, that was one thing they taught us very early on and why they did that.
You know, that's pretty neat.
But that was a pretty respected thing that we did back then and I don't remember too much playing around with that.
That was kind of serious business.
And they told us, you know, we had to know the names of everybody in our outfit and be able to call them.
You had to speak and that speaking to each other was
Oh, stressed very much.
But there are some of the things that I've seen here since I've been back at A&M that I don't recall us doing back in those days.
I think in some ways some of that has moved the wrong direction from what I remember.
But back to where the, you know, what I remember as being very uncomfortable was football games.
The core all set together down there on the east side.
And I was a big sports nut when I came to A&M.
I kept up with, I read the paper cover to cover every day.
I could tell you the batting average of every player in the major league.
I just read it and I could remember that right at it.
People used to say, how do you remember that?
I say, well, if you're really interested in something, you can remember it.
That was my philosophy.
And I think there's some truth in that.
But anyway, I was really looking forward to the football games at A&M.
To be at A&M made me feel very proud.
back up.
I remember we had to go to Guyon Hall for some orientation or something and I just sat there and looked around and I was so elated about being here and thinking I'm sitting here at this great university and this great hall and you know, I've come a long way to be here, just to be here.
But anyway, back to the football game.
I was really looking forward.
I had a practice game there one Saturday before the season started.
I went out and watched all of that.
I was just really into it.
We played that first home football game, and we marched into the stadium.
Golly, we sit down, and the sophomores are just all over us.
I mean all over us.
And I didn't get to see any of the football game.
But the sophomores sat there right behind the freshmen, I guess it was, or amongst us.
And most of them had a big cigar.
And they'd puff on that cigar and blow smoke in your face and ask you all kind of impossible questions and harass you.
And that was really one of the most uncomfortable, unpleasant experiences I had as a freshman was going to the football games.
did were the rest of the games that year home games about like the first one uh i i would say so it was it was pretty fair game to for the sophomores but i but i did i'll come to it a little later maybe but i ended up getting a job later and i escaped some of that harassing that we had i never will forget i believe it was the oklahoma game we played oklahoma
that year.
Billy Vessels was a star halfback, all-American halfback for Oklahoma.
It was on a Saturday evening, and the rain off and on is a wet evening.
But I believe we beat Oklahoma that night.
It was a great game.
But I never will forget, I didn't get to see much of it because of the harassment I got from the sophomores.
And I guess that
disappointed me and discouraged me about as much as anything was the harassment I went through at football games.
Now, they don't do that kind of stuff today.
Of course, the Corps didn't sit together until recent years again, and that's one thing they lost over the years.
I think you can pretty much go to the football game as a fish in the Corps today and enjoy it.
But it was miserable.
The other way you could now for the road games,
Our home games, if you had a date, that made it a little different too.
But most of us didn't have a date.
But that made things a little different.
But those football games were miserable.
Your freshman year, did you already have an academic major in mind?
Oh, yes.
I had, my older brother was majoring.